#summary A debugging tool for Android.

====How do I get Dalvik Explorer?==
If you just want to use Dalvik Explorer, you can find it in the Market on your phone. Search for "Dalvik Explorer" (<a href="market://details?id=org.jessies.dalvikexplorer">direct link</a>).

It's a free download. Old versions (and the current version if you don't have Market access) are [http://code.google.com/p/enh/downloads/list available here].

====How do I report a bug/provide general feedback?==
Click on the "Issues" tab above and then click on "New issue". Or follow this direct link: [http://code.google.com/p/enh/issues/entry report a bug].

If you want to give me feedback that you don't think counts as an "issue", feel free to use the "Mail author" facility in the Market on your phone instead.

====Where's the source code?==
If you came here for the source code, click on the "Source" tab above and follow the instructions.

====Future Enhancements===

All list views should be substring searchable (as opposed to prefix-searchable, as they currently are).

The file system viewer should show information equivalent to "ls -l". Also MIME type. Also menu option to send ACTION_VIEW intent before viewing as text in built-in FileViewerActivity. (Maybe automatic, based on guessed MIME type?)

Add a character viewer? So you'd type 202a or whatever and get to see U+202a, plus maybe the result of all the methods in Character applied to that code point?

====What changed between versions?==

|| *Version* || *Details* ||
|| 1.7 || All text views copyable & mailable. File system browser can now send ACTION_VIEW intents. First day of week/minimal first days in week. ||
|| 1.6 || Filterable lists. VM heap size in device info. ||
|| 1.5 || Fix build/device info for pre-Android 1.6 devices. ||
|| 1.4 || Build/device info, file system browser, options menu (mail report, help). ||
|| 1.3 || Full details of date/time/number formatting (per locale). ||
|| 1.2 || More detailed information on charsets, locales, and time zones. ||
|| 1.1 || Split the output into sections. ||
|| 1.0 || Initial release. One big text view. ||